***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

1-Why do we need data structure?
Answer:
  Data structure gives you the option to store your data so that you can access it based on your requirement.
In this Java tutorial, we will take a look at a standard data structure.
Array, linked list, Stack, Queue, Map, Set, and How they are implemented in Java, along with how to use them

2-What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:
Following operations can be performed on the data structures:
Traversing.
Searching.
Inserting.
Deleting.
Sorting.
Merging.

3-When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:
  To implement back functionality in the internet browser. To store the possible moves in a chess game.
To store a set of ﬁxed key words which are referenced very frequently.
To store the customer order information in a drive-in burger place.

4-What is an Array?
Answer:
  An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
The length of an array is established when the array is created. After creation, its length is fixed.
Each item in an array is called an element, and each element is accessed by its numerical index.

5-What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:
Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed.
We cannot store primitives in ArrayList,it can only store objects.
But array can contain both primitives and objects in Java.

6-What is a LinkedList?
Answer:
  Linked List is a part of the Collection framework present in java. This class is an implementation of
the LinkedList data structure which is a linear data structure where the elements are not stored
in contiguous locations and every element is a separate object with a data part and address part.

7-How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:
  An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered
collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.
Array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index. Random accessing is not possible in linked lists

8-What is a Queue?
Answer:
  Java Queue is an interface available in java. util package and extends java. util.
Just like Java List, Java Queue is a collection of ordered elements (Or objects)
but it performs insert and remove operations differently.
We can use Queue to store elements before processing those elements.

9-What is a Stack (not Java memory - refers to data structure)?
Answer:
  The stack is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects.
The stack data structure has the two most important operations that are push and pop.
The push operation inserts an element into the stack and pop operation removes an element from the top of the stack.

10-What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:
  FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures
where the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO).

11-Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:
  Big O Notation is a relative representation of an algorithm's complexity.
It describes how an algorithm performs and scales by denoting an upper bound of its growth rate.
It describes the upper bound of the growth rate of a function and could be thought of the worst case scenario.

12-What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
  Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an unsorted array. [1] But if the
array is sorted in increasing order by value, then we can do much better. We use a process called binary search

13-What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
  The worst case occurs when the array is sorted in reverse order.
So the worst case time complexity of insertion sort is O(n2).

14-Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:
  A tree data structure is a non-linear data structure because it does not store in a sequential manner.
It is a hierarchical structure as elements in a Tree are arranged in multiple levels. In the Tree data structure,
the topmost node is known as a root node. Each node contains some data, and data can be of any type.

15-Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:
  A graph data structure mainly stores connected data, for example, a network of people or a network of cities.
A graph data structure typically consists of nodes or points called vertices.
Each vertex is connected to another vertex using links called edges.

16-What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:
  HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without
proper synchronization code whereas Hashtable is synchronized.
HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value

17-What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model
Answer:
Kovair Software
RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
Network data model = Graph.
Hierarchical data model = Trees.

18-How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:
  HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows
us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key.
In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap.
Objects are stored by calling put(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by calling get(key) method.
When we call put method, the hashcode() method of the key object is called so that the
hash function of the map can find a bucket location to store value object,
which is actually an index of the internal array, known as the table.



19-What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:
  The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of an array at an index which
is not present in the array. In other words, the index may be negative or exceed the size of an array.

20-What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:
  There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.
  Manually.
  Arrays.copyOf()
  System.arraycopy()
  Object.clone()

21-What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:
  BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search. 2. BFS(Breadth First Search)
uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path. DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure.

22-What is Recursion?
Answer:
  Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself.
This technique provides a way to break complicated problems down into simple problems which are easier to solve.

23-What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:
  In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are
attached to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data elements are
attached in hierarchically manner.In linear data structure, data elements can be traversed in a single run only.


24-Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:


25-Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a) In terms of Accessing elements:
  b) In terms of Inserting elements:
  c) In terms of Searching elements:
  d) In terms of Removing elements: